>> Nina Zakharenko: It would be great if
the web was all plain text, but it's not.
So, Flask provides something
called templating,
which allows us to quickly and
easily access variables without
having to use JavaScript or
anything fancy.
In order to use a template
in whichever folder your
hello.py is,
we're gonna open the terminal.
We can kill our server for now just so
we know we're on the right path.
We're gonna make a new directory and
we're gonna call it templates.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And then we're
gonna touch a file here, index.html.
And-
>> Nina Zakharenko: That touch
command won't work for Windows.
So let me quickly, yeah,
I believe it's F-C.
And then a forward slash.
So for Windows it's,
or not a forward slash,
it's a bracket templates/index.html, okay?
>> Nina Zakharenko: To get
our simple template to work,
we have to do a few things.
The first is we need to import
render_template from Flask.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And render_template
takes-
>> Nina Zakharenko: The name of
the template that we want to use.
So here, instead of returning hello_world,
we're gonna return render_template,
and we're gonna pass in
the name of our template,
we don't have to put in
the template's directory.
Now let's open our index.html file and
put, this is a template, and save that.
>> Nina Zakharenko: After
you're done creating the files,
remember to run your Flask server again.
And now if I click on this link,
there we go, got, this is a template!.
Is everyone seeing the same thing?
Flask supports a templating language
called Jinja that allows you to populate
your HTML files with data from
your Flask app at render time.
I'm not going to go into
the specifics of Jinja, but
I will show you a-
>> Nina Zakharenko: Simple example.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So let's just make a,
let's put some HTML texts
in our template and
make the title of our page be,
Hello, from Flask!
We can delete our this is a template.
So, in order for
our template to have variables,
we need to explicitly pass them in.
The way that we would do that
is via this render template.
So the first argument is
the name of the template, and
then any other arguments after
that get passed into the template.
So I can say, the name is Nina,
and then pass it in here in
the call to render template.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Going
back to our template file,
we now have access to this variable.
And so this Jinja templating
language looks like this.
The arguments are within
a curly brace percent sign.
So if you've used templating for
other languages, like JavaScript,
this shouldn't look too far-fetched.
And so,
I can put simple expressions in here.
If you wanna know more about Jinja I
would check out the documentation.
But I can say if name-
>> Nina Zakharenko: And with Jinja,
Jinja is just like HTML, so
we need to have opening tags and
closing tags to signify a block of code.
So to close an if statement in Jinja,
you would just say endif.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now we can put some
conditional code between these two texts.
I can say hello in each one.
And then to access
the value of a variable,
you just use two sets of curly braces, and
this will print out the value of name.
Let's reload our web page, and we'll see
the information from our new template.
So everyone see that?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great!
So, just a little bit more about Flask.
Like I mentioned, Flask,
any of these other web frameworks,
they're really easy to add to.
So if your app is ready for the big
time and you want to add a database,
Flask is a useful mechanism for
accessing database objects.
It makes it really easy to use databases
and store your data for a dynamic web app.
You can find a lot more information about
that in the Flask documentation, but
unless you want to be here until
midnight it's a topic for another day.
In terms of deploying your web app,
there are a lot of different
options from beginner to advanced.
To deploy your real web server, I think
Heroku is the best bet for beginners.
It's pretty easy, it provides a lot
of step by step instructions, and
then as your app grows you
can graduate from there.
The Flask documentation list
other deployment options.
And know that we're covering
just the basics of Flask today.
But to deep dive and learn more,
the Flask Mega-Tutorial is a great
resource to check out after this class.
It's a huge tutorial
that covers everything
from databases to to time zones.
Probably take you a few days to complete,
and
you'll feel pretty comfortable
with Flask after that.